.TH cckddiag 1 "2003-02-03"
.SH NAME
\fBcckddiag\fP - Hercules CCKD DASD diagnostic tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcckddiag\fP [options...] \fBfilename\fP

.SH DESCRIPTION
Hercules support tool used to assist in the diagnosis of CCKD DASD problems.
Operates on Hercules CCKD DASD volumes in read-only mode, and displays
various information contained in CCKD DASD files.  Effective usage requires
internal knowledge of Hercules CCKD DASD files.

.SH OPTIONS
The following options are used to specify which portions of the CCKD DASD 
file are to be displayed.  Options may not be combined; for example, -cd1
is not a valid option.  Surround each option by blank(s).

Argument numbers may be specified either in decimal or hexadecimal.
If the number begins with the characters 0x the number is presumed to be
hexadecimal; else the number is presumed to be decimal.
No numeric overflow checking is done, the user is assumed (!) to know 
what they're doing.

Options are divided into three categories: \fBglobal options\fP, \fBtrack-related
options\fP, and \fBthe offset option\fP.

.SH Global options

.SS filename
specifies the Hercules CCKD DASD filename (sometimes referred to as the
DASD image file)
.SS -v
display version and exit
.SS -d
display DEVHDR
.SS -c
display CDEVHDR 
.SS -1
display L1TAB  (note this option is a numeric one)
.SS -g
enable debug output

.SH Track-related options

To direct cckddiag to a specific track, two options are provided: -a and -r.
The remaining track-related options describe the kind of output desired.
The TRKHDR for the track is displayed for all track-related options.
.SS -a cc hh
display \fBabsolute\fP CCHH data - where \fBcc\fP and \fBhh\fP are respectively the
cylinder number (relative zero), and the head number (relative zero).
.SS -r tt
display \fBrelative\fP track data - where \fBtt\fP is the track number 
(relative zero).
.SS -2
display L2TAB - requires a corresponding -a or -r specification to direct
cckddiag to a specific track.  
.SS -t
display track data - displays the COUNT, KEY, and DATA record summaries
for the data residing on the indicated track.
.SS -x
hex display track key/data - displays the KEY and DATA records' contents in
hexadecimal display format for the indicated track.
Some repetitive data may be omitted from the hex display output.

.SH Offset option

This option provides the ability to examine any portion of the CCKD file,
as an alternative to track specification.
.SS -o oo ll
hex display data at offset \fBoo\fP of length \fBll\fP.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP 
cckd(4)
.TP
http://www.hercules-390.org/ the Hercules emulator homepage.
.TP
http://www.hercules-390.org/cckddasd.html which describes
the Hercules CCKD DASD facility.

.SH HISTORY
2003-02-07 originally written by James M. Morrison



