.TH vmfplc2.1 "2010-08-07"
.SH NAME
\fBvmfplc2\fP - Hercules VMFPLC2 (VM) formatted tape utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvmfplc2\fP dump <control file> <output tape file>
.br
\fBvmfplc2\fP scan <input tape file>
.br
\fBvmfplc2\fP load <input tape file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
Hercules command to manipulate (create and read) VMFPLC2 formatted tapes
for VM/370 use.

.SH OPTIONS
the vmfplc2 utility requires a function (dump, scan or load) followed by
the names of files to process.

.SH Functions

.SS dump
The dump function allows creating a VMFPLC2 formatted tape.
.SS scan
The scan function allows listing the contents of a VMFPLC2 formatted tape.
.SS load
The load function allows importing the contents of a VMFPLC2 formatted tape
unto the system.

.SH Control File
The control file allows the DUMP function to determine what files to dump
and how they should be interpreted on VM.

Each line has the following format :
.br
<fn> <ft> <fm> <recfm> <lrecl> <type> <host file>

.SS <fn>
Is the 1 to 8 character that represents the file name. The file name can
be specified as lower case, but will be translated to upper case to follow
CMS conventions. Characters allowed are [A-Z], [0-9], $ (Dollar), # (Pound),
@ (At), + (Plus), - (Hyphen), : (Colon) and _ (Underscore).

.SS <ft>
Is the 1 to 8 character that represents the file type. The file type can
be specified as lower case, but will be translated to upper case to follow
CMS conventions. Characters allowed are [A-Z], [0-9], $ (Dollar), # (Pound),
@ (At), + (Plus), - (Hyphen), : (Colon) and _ (Underscore).

.SS <fm>
Is the 1 to 2 character that represents the file mode. The 1st character is a
letter from A to Z and represents the "original" file mode when scanned on
VM/370 (it does not force the file to be loaded on a certain disk). The second
character is a digit from 0 to 6. The file mode number indicates specific behavior
for the file under CMS.

.SS <recfm>
Indicates the record format, and should be F (for Fixed) or V (for Variable).

.SS <lrecl>
Indicate the logical record length. This should only be specified for RECFM F
files.

.SS <type>
Indicates how the file is processed before being written to tape. The value can
either be B (Binary), T (Textual) or S (Structured).
.SS Binary
The file is not translated. For RECFM F files, the file is cut into records of
the size of the Logical Record length specified. For RECFM V files, the file is
cut into records of 65535 bytes except for the last record which has a length
of the remainder of the file.
.SS Textual
The file is translated from ASCII to EBCDIC and the trailing line termination
character is removed. For RECFM F files, the record may be truncated or padded
with EBCDIC X'40' characters (White space). For RECFM V files, each record
represents the length of the line up to 65535 characters.
.SS Structured
The file contains structured information which indicates the 16 bit length of each
record in Big endian format. For RECFM F files, the record may be truncated or padded.
For RECFM V files, the records are stored as is.

.SS <tape file>
The tape file is created or read as an HET (Hercules Emulated Tape) format. The DUMP
function creates a file, while the SCAN and LOAD functions only read the file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
http://www.hercules-390.org/ the Hercules emulator homepage.

.SH HISTORY
2010-08-07 originally written by Ivan S. Warren
